[Music]
connectivity is an amazing thing by now
we're all used to the instant
connectivity that puts the world at our
fingertips from desktops or devices we
can purchase post pin and pick anything
anywhere we are connected to the world
and each other like never before but how
does it happen how does data get from
here to there how do different devices
and applications connect with each other
to allow us to place an order make a
reservation or book a flight with just a
few types of things the unsung hero of
our connected world is the application
programming interface or API it's the
engine under the hood and is behind the
scenes that we take for granted but it's
what makes possible all the
interactivity we've come to expect and
rely upon but exactly what is an API
it's a question everyone asks ok not
really but we're glad you did
the textbook definition go something
like this in computer programming an
application programming interface API is
a set of routines protocols okay to
speak plainly an API is the messenger
that takes requests and tells a system
what you want to do and then returns the
response back to you to give you a
familiar example think of an API as a
we're in a restaurant imagine you're
sitting at the table with a menu of
choices to order from in the kitchen is
the part of the system which will
prepare your order what's missing is the
critical link to communicate your order
to the kitchen and deliver your food
back to your table that's where the
waiter or API comes in M the waiter is
the messenger that takes your request or
order and tells the system in this case
the kitchen what to do and then delivers
the response back to you in this case
food now that we've whetted your
appetite let's apply this to a real API
example you are probably familiar with
the process of searching for airline
flights online just like at a restaurant
you have a menu of options to choose
from a drop-down menu in this case you
choose a departure City and date a
return city and date tabbing clasp and
other variables in order to book your
flight you interact with the airlines
website to access the airline's database
to see if any seats are available on
those dates and what the
cost might be based on certain variables
but what if you're not using the
Airlines website which has direct access
to the information what if you are using
an online travel service that aggregates
information from many different airlines
the travel service interacts with the
airline's API the API is the interface
that like you're helpful where can be
asked by that online travel service to
get information from the airline system
over the Internet to book seats choose
meal preferences or baggage options it
also then takes the Airlines response to
your request and delivers it right back
to the online travel service which then
shows it to you so now you can see that
it's AP is that make it possible for us
all to use travel sites the same goes
for all interactions between
applications data and devices they all
have api's that allow computers to
operate them and that's what ultimately
creates connectivity so whenever you
think of an API just think of it as your
waiter running back and forth between
applications databases and devices to
deliver data and create the connectivity
that puts the world at our fingertips
and whenever you think of creating an
API think mule soft